# Quantifying Decentralization
This is an artifact that is part of my bachelor's thesis at the Chair of Information Systems at Freie Universität Berlin. 
For testing the project one must follow a few steps:

1. Create a database with the attached configuration file
2. Set up a .env file that stores sensible database connection data, so the artifact can access the database (an example for the structure of the .env file is provided)

**Abstract**

Blockchain technology is widely regarded as a significant technological innovation with the potential to revolutionize industries such as finance, supply chain management, and healthcare. At the core of blockchain’s promise lies decentralization, a key feature that facilitates trustless transactions among diverse users. However, recent research on leading blockchain applications, notably Bitcoin and Ethereum, has raised questions about the inherent decentralization of these systems. As blockchain applications gain widespread adoption, the growing demand for transaction processing may additionally affect decentralization, as per the blockchain scalability trilemma. Therefore, this thesis provides an artifact for continuously measuring the decentralization across different parameters for five prominent public blockchains - Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cardano, Solana, and Avalanche. Through its inclusion of newer, emerging blockchains, this thesis diversifies the current body of research and provides the first solution to constantly evaluate a blockchain’s decentralization degree. An associated analysis of the gathered decentralization data for February and March 2024 shows that Bitcoin remains the most decentralized public blockchain network, even if next- generational blockchains are incorporated. Instead, out of the studied blockchains Solana and Avalanche seem to be the least decentralized. This result is of particular importance, as both of these systems enable the highest degree of scalability across the incorporated blockchains, thus, emphasizing the need to keep monitoring blockchain decentralization as they evolve.
